README.md, before:

# Contiv - VPP

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/contiv/vpp.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/contiv/vpp)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/contiv/vpp/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/contiv/vpp?branch=master)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/contiv/vpp)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/contiv/vpp)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/contiv/vpp?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/contiv/vpp)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%20license%202.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/contiv/vpp/blob/master/LICENSE)

This Kubernetes network plugin uses FD.io VPP to provide network connectivity
between PODs. Currently, only Kubernetes 1.9.X and higher versions are supported.


## Quickstart
You can get started with Contiv-VPP in one of two ways:
* Use the [Contiv-VPP Vagrant Installation][1] instructions to start a 
  simulated Kubernetes cluster with a couple of hosts running in VirtualBox
  VMs. This is the easiest way to bring up a cluster for exploring the 
  capabilities and features of Contiv-VPP.
   
* Use the [Contiv-specific kubeadm install][2] instructions to manually
  install Kubernetes with Contiv-VPP networking on one or more bare-metal
  
  
## Reporting Bugs
In order to report a bug, please file an issue in GitHub. Please provide
the information described in [Bug Reports README](docs/BUG_REPORTS.md).

## Communication Channels
Slack Channel: [https://contivvpp.slack.com/](https://contivvpp.slack.com/)

## Contributing

Contributions to VPP-Agent are welcome. We use the standard pull request
model. You can either pick an open issue and assign it to yourself or open
a new issue and discuss your feature.

In any case, before submitting your pull request please check the 
[Coding style][3] and cover the newly added code with tests and 
documentation (Contiv-VPP adopted the coding style used in the [Ligato][5]
project). Upon submission, each patch is run through the `go fmt` and 
`golint` tools.


The tool used for managing third-party dependencies is [Dep][4]. After
 adding or updating a dependency in `Gopkg.toml` run `make install-dep` to 
download the specified dependencies into the vendor folder. Please make sure
that each dependency in the `Gopkg.toml` has a specific `version` defined 
(a specific commit ID or a git tag).

[1]: vagrant/README.md
[2]: docs/MANUAL_INSTALL.md
[3]: https://github.com/ligato/cn-infra/blob/master/docs/guidelines/CODINGSTYLE.md
[4]: https://github.com/golang/dep
[5]: https://github.com/ligato

Commit message:

Add Documents and Pulling Images Support for Arm64 Platform
Add documents to describe the manual installation on Arm64 platform.

Add pulling images support for arm64 platform from official
docker repository.

Signed-off-by: trevortao <trevor.tao@arm.com>

README.md, after:

# Contiv - VPP

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/contiv/vpp.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/contiv/vpp)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/contiv/vpp/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/contiv/vpp?branch=master)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/contiv/vpp)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/contiv/vpp)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/contiv/vpp?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/contiv/vpp)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%20license%202.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/contiv/vpp/blob/master/LICENSE)

This Kubernetes network plugin uses FD.io VPP to provide network connectivity
between PODs. Currently, only Kubernetes 1.9.X and higher versions are supported.


## Quickstart
You can get started with Contiv-VPP in one of two ways:
* Use the [Contiv-VPP Vagrant Installation][1] instructions to start a
  simulated Kubernetes cluster with a couple of hosts running in VirtualBox
  VMs. This is the easiest way to bring up a cluster for exploring the
  capabilities and features of Contiv-VPP.

* Use the [Contiv-specific kubeadm install][2] instructions to manually
  install Kubernetes with Contiv-VPP networking on one or more bare-metal

* Use the [Arm64-specific kubeadm install][6] instructions to manually
  install Kubernetes with Contiv-VPP networking on one or more bare-metal
  of Arm64 platform.


## Reporting Bugs
In order to report a bug, please file an issue in GitHub. Please provide
the information described in [Bug Reports README](docs/BUG_REPORTS.md).

## Communication Channels
Slack Channel: [https://contivvpp.slack.com/](https://contivvpp.slack.com/)

## Contributing

Contributions to VPP-Agent are welcome. We use the standard pull request
model. You can either pick an open issue and assign it to yourself or open
a new issue and discuss your feature.

In any case, before submitting your pull request please check the
[Coding style][3] and cover the newly added code with tests and
documentation (Contiv-VPP adopted the coding style used in the [Ligato][5]
project). Upon submission, each patch is run through the `go fmt` and
`golint` tools.


The tool used for managing third-party dependencies is [Dep][4]. After
 adding or updating a dependency in `Gopkg.toml` run `make install-dep` to
download the specified dependencies into the vendor folder. Please make sure
that each dependency in the `Gopkg.toml` has a specific `version` defined
(a specific commit ID or a git tag).

[1]: vagrant/README.md
[2]: docs/MANUAL_INSTALL.md
[3]: https://github.com/ligato/cn-infra/blob/master/docs/guidelines/CODINGSTYLE.md
[4]: https://github.com/golang/dep
[5]: https://github.com/ligato
[6]: docs/arm64/MANUAL_INSTALL_ARM64.md
