vagrant/README.md, before:

## Contiv-VPP Vagrant Installation

This folder contains the Vagrantfile to create a single or multi-node 
Kubernetes cluster using Contiv-VPP as a Network Plugin. 

It is organized into two subfolders:

 - (config) - contains the files needed to share cluster information, used during the provisioning stage (master IP address, Certificates, hash-keys). Editing is not recommended!
 - (vagrant-scripts) - contains scripts for creating, destroying, rebooting and shuting down the VMs that host the K8s cluster.

To define the cluster's size edit the value K8S_NODES found in vagrant-scripts/vagrant-up.sh script:
```
export K8S_NODES=0, for a single-node setup
export K8S_NODES=1, for a two-node setup
```

To create and run the cluster run vagrant-up.sh script, located inside vagrant-scripts folder:
```
cd vagrant-scripts/
./vagrant-up.sh
```

To destroy and clean-up the cluster run vagrant-cleanup.sh script, located inside vagrant-scripts folder:
```
cd vagrant-scripts/
./vagrant-cleanup.sh
```

To shutdown the cluster run vagrant-shutdown.sh script, located inside vagrant-scripts folder:
```
cd vagrant-scripts/
./vagrant-shutdown.sh
```

To reboot the cluster run vagrant-reload.sh script, located inside vagrant-scripts folder:
```
cd vagrant-scripts/
./vagrant-reload.sh
```

From a suspended state, or after a reboot of the host machine, cluster can be brought up by running the vagrant-up.sh script.

Commit message:

Allow overriding vagrant vars without editing scripts
Changing runtime variable shouldn't require editing scripts that are
under revision control.

Additionally, bash scripts should have error exit and pipefail turned
on by default, so unexpected errors stop the script.

vagrant/README.md, after:

## Contiv-VPP Vagrant Installation

This folder contains the Vagrantfile to create a single or multi-node 
Kubernetes cluster using Contiv-VPP as a Network Plugin. 

It is organized into two subfolders:

 - (config) - contains the files needed to share cluster information, used during the provisioning stage (master IP address, Certificates, hash-keys). Editing is not recommended!
 - (vagrant-scripts) - contains scripts for creating, destroying, rebooting and shuting down the VMs that host the K8s cluster.

If you wish to change the default number of nodes, set K8S_NODES before running vagrant-up.sh:
```
# For a single node setup:
export K8S_NODES=0
# For a two node setup:
export K8S_NODES=1
```

To create and run the cluster run vagrant-up.sh script, located inside vagrant-scripts folder:
```
cd vagrant-scripts/
./vagrant-up.sh
```

To destroy and clean-up the cluster run vagrant-cleanup.sh script, located inside vagrant-scripts folder:
```
cd vagrant-scripts/
./vagrant-cleanup.sh
```

To shutdown the cluster run vagrant-shutdown.sh script, located inside vagrant-scripts folder:
```
cd vagrant-scripts/
./vagrant-shutdown.sh
```

To reboot the cluster run vagrant-reload.sh script, located inside vagrant-scripts folder:
```
cd vagrant-scripts/
./vagrant-reload.sh
```

From a suspended state, or after a reboot of the host machine, cluster can be brought up by running the vagrant-up.sh script.
